Okay, so now that our lutes been
displayed correctly it's time to look at
how we can deal with more than one piece
of loot now I'm gonna give Tim some more
loot in the main function so let's kind
of have a look at that so what we're
going to do is add some chest armor as
well so we come down here after the add
Tim to invent shoot an ad they're going
to insert two more lines I'm gonna do a
Val chest armor equals loot double
quotes + 3 chest double just going to be
looped tight dot over and say the belly
is 80 then we're going to do tip dot
inventory dot add chest armor now us
were dealing with carat see here the
military value of the loot we can also
top 80 point zero zero or so which is
how which is more like our monetary
values are usually written and that also
helps anyone reading the code to quickly
spot that we're dealing with money here
Kotlin doesn't care in any case a single
zero after the decimal point is all that
Kotlin deeds all right so that's another program
now at this point we're still only
getting the one inventory item printed
so we need to modify our show inventory
function so that it prints all the items
in the list so to do that we'll go to
our player class so every function and
what we need to do or what we need is
something called a for loop there are
for loop is a way to repeat a section of
code for a range of items or values so
in this case we want to loop over all
the items in our list so to do that
we'll come and add some code so we're
going to put the code under the first
print of heading under the where it's
got the name of the person and then that
inventory below that for parentheses
item in inventory close parentheses then
we're just going to do a print 'land
item and what we can now do is get rid
of that inventory don't get 0 we're not
gonna be using that anymore and we'll
leave the equal signs there so this code
now iterates over each of the items in
the array list then executes a block of
code for each one now in languages such
as Java or C this form of the for loop
is called a for each loop our item
starts off being assigned you can say
item in here along 29 that starts off
being assigned to the first item in the
list and all we do in the block is
printed so we're printing it out here as
you can see in the code block on line 30
now because we have overridden the to
string function will actually get a neat
line of output that shows the items name
and value as well as the type of loading
these will run that shortly to see now
what's the first item has been processed
or item is dinner side the next item in
the list then that's printed and then we
go back to rounding at the third item
and so on now we've only got two items
so our link should terminate after
processing Yarmuth so let's just run the
program to make sure we do get both
items printed out
you can see we've got Tibbs infantry red
potion plus three chests I would say
it's clearly now working and doing the
right thing which is good now if there
were more bits ability to the inventory
that be printed out as well so what I'm
going to do is give Tim some more loot
this time we're not going to create
variables to store them in we're just
going to add them directly to the
inventory for Tim so to do that we're
gonna get in the line after the last ad
actually what we'll do is we'll do it
after the show inventory look down here
we'll put Tim dot inventory dot add
parentheses let's go for a ring of
protection plus two we're going to call
this one it's going to be a loot type
dot really surprises there the value
will go forty point two five and I
forgot something they don't need to add
something in here loot the type that
were actually adding because of type
loot and that will fix that error up now
and that's also confirmation that the
fact that when we defined our ArrayList
we mentioned that it was of type loot
and you can see that I was getting an
error until I actually made sure that I
was creating a loot object so that's a
confirmation that it's working for us
alright let's add one more thing we'll
have a potion so Tim dot inventory dot
add loot invisibility potion is
invisibility potion loot type darts
potion and 3595 we'll go with the
military value then we'll do another Tim
taught show inventory so let's run that you
if you scroll up and have a look we can
see that we've got the first table
called show of a tree we had the two
items the second time we've called the
show me the tree we've got a total of
five items showing on the screen off for
our time showing on the screen now with
the ring of protection plus two and the
invisibility potion added the second
time so for loops are very useful when
you want to process a list of items but
they're also useful for repeating a
section of code a set number of times
now for the rest of this video we're
going to leave our classes and have a
look at some more for loops we're going
to be coming back to these classes soon
so instead of deleting all this code in
our main function
I'm going to comet it all out now a
commenting Kotlin starts with two
slashes and any committed lines are
ignored by the compiler now fortunately
we don't have to type two slashes at the
start of every line because the Angelus
GTO provides an easier way so you want
to select all the code that we want to
come it out and it's going to be all the
code from the last print line but not
including the coding closing code block
we want to leave that in there the right
parenthesis the right curly brace go
right up to the start just after the
definition of far the function they can
once you've done that you can go to the
code menu and you can select comment
with line comment you can see out of
these slashes the two slashes for every
line to save us having to have typed
each one individually and again make
sure that you haven't included the curly
braces we need them to remain
uncommented curly braces here on line
one in this case also in line 46 alright
so let's try another loop there I'll go
to type for parentheses I in one and two
periods 10 closing parentheses and add
left or right curly braces and it'll
print 'ln I let's run that
okay we get the numbers one to ten
printed out now that's not very exciting
perhaps but we can't put any code we
want inside the for-loop
so to demonstrate that let's go back up
and make a change so at the moment have
got printing over let's change that to
print hland then put two double quotes
dollar I squared is the parentheses left
to right curly braces I times I closing
parenthesis
let's try running back
you and it's
got the valleys of 1 to 10 squared
showing on the screen now often if
you've got 10 objects
they'll be indexed starting at 0 then
that's easy to do we can just change the
1 to 0 so we go ahead and do that let's
run that alright so can you spot the
problem with doing that though the
problem is that the loops gone around in
11 times not 10 now this is a very
common cause of errors in programs if we
start at 0 and we want to go around 10
times then we need to stop at 9 now a
Kotlin helps heat by letting us use
until instead of the two dots in the
range so we can go ahead and change that
to the 2 instead of the two dots we can
put 0 get rid of the two dots and type
in until 10 if you run that
we correctly get the results from zero
through nine now when we use until to
specify the range the ending value isn't
included in the range so that lets us
work with valleys that are more natural
if there are ten items to process it's
natural to want to put ten in the range
rather than nine so be aware of the
differences though using two dots like
we had earlier means that the final
value will be included but using until
where's your song we do here means it won't
now if we wanted to iterate over the
range of numbers in reverse order we can
use down to so we can change it to for I
in ten instead of on till will delete
that down to zero like so let's run that
and see what the value study from 10
Devon and to and including zero now
there wasn't a non-inclusive version of
down 2 so the final value as you can see
here zero in this case will be included
so keep that in mind now there's one
last thing we can add to our for loop
and that's a step so let's have a look
at that so we go back and change this to
four I intend down to zero on the end of
it we're gonna add step two let's run
that and you can see we've got a
different output now the other loop
count standard steps of 2 now the step
has to be positive so you can't use a
negative step to count backwards
that's what damn 2 is 4 so that's 4
loops we've given you thinking a lot in
the course and you'll get plenty of
practice using them but a bit more
practice won't hurt those so I'm going
to finish this video with a challenge
all right so the challenge is to create
a for loop that prints out the numbers
from 0 to 100 that are divisible by both
3 & 5 know us a hint here you'll need to
include it if inside your loop now I
don't think I've mentioned the modulus
operator the percent it returns the
remainder after dividing one number into
another and if the remainder is 0 then
the second number divides evenly into
the first so some examples to try you
can see on the screen they're printed in
7 modulus 3 so 3 goes into 7 twice with
a remainder of 1
Fruitland 8 modulus 4 4 goes into 8
exactly twice with no remainder and the
third one print hland no in modulus 5 5
goes into 9 once with a remainder of 4
you can see the code on the next slide
if 16 modulus 4 equals 4 equals 0 4
divides exactly into 16 there another
hint here for you to solve this
challenge is that your code will be more
efficient if you use a step so that's
the challenge pause the video and I'll
see you when you get back okay so as
usual there's said there are several
ways to write this code it's very rare
that there's only one way to do
something as I mentioned before when
programming now a simple solution would
be to test each day
to see if it's divisible by 3 then test
it again to see if five also divides
into it then we can make that more
efficient by studying it three and
looping in steps of three so let's have
a go at doing that they're going to
leave that first four line in there that
first four block because type 4
parentheses value in 3 dot dot or period
100 step 3 then open a code block then
put an if test in there so if
parentheses value what jealous 5 is
equal to zero there's a code block we're
gonna print land value so my solution is
leaping from 3 to 100 in steps of 3 now
you can also loop in the steps of 5
instead which leap would be more
efficient looping in steps of 3 or in
steps of 5 well inside the loop the code
checks value modulus 5 then if the
remainder the modulus is 0 then 5
divides exactly into the number so we're
printing it out now if your solution
produces the same values as mine let's
just run this to confirm then you can
see the example you should be getting at
15 30 45 60 75 and 90 if your solution
produces the same results and well done
you've completed the challenge now
living in steps of 5 would have been
more efficient then only have been 20
village to test inside the loop instead
of the 33 that while loop tests so that
would be an improvement over 50% alright
so in the next video we're going to go
back to our classes and look at some
more functions we can add to the player
class, so I'll see you in the next video.